

bisect(list, num, beg, end) :- This function returns the position in the sorted list, where the number 
passed in argument can be placed so as to maintain the resultant list in sorted order.



1)
Prime Numbers

The Sieve of Eratosthenes is a highly efficient way to generate a list of primes. It works by recognizing that
all non-prime numbers are divisible by a prime number.

3)
Probability 


4) 
Worst case minimization Problem 

The "nine balls" question is a classic interview question. You have nine balls. Eight are of the same weight,
and one is heavier. You are given a balance which tells you only whether the left side or the right side is
heavier. Find the heavy ball in just two uses of the scale.

5) 
The Heavy Pill: You have 20 bottles of pills. 19 bottles have 1.0 gram pills, but one has pills of weight
1.1 grams. Given a scale that provides an exact measurement, how would you find the heavy bottle?
You can only use the scale once.

6) 
Basketball: You have a basketball hoop and someone says that you can play one of two games.
Game 1: You get one shot to make the hoop.
Game 2: You get three shots and you have to make two of three shots.
If p is the probability of making a particular shot, for which values of p should you pick one game
or the other?

7) 
Dominos: There is an 8x8 chessboard in which two diagonally opposite corners have been cut off.
You are given 31 dominos, and a single domino can cover exactly two squares. Can you use the 31
dominos to cover the entire board? Prove your answer (by providing an example or showing why
it's impossible).

8) 
Ants on a Triangle: There are three ants on different vertices of a triangle. What is the probability of
collision (between any two or all of them) if they start walking on the sides of the triangle? Assume
that each ant randomly picks a direction, with either direction being equally likely to be chosen, and
that they walk at the same speed.
Similarly, find the probability of collision with n ants on an n-vertex polygon.

9) 
Jugs of Water: You have a five-quart jug, a three-quart jug, and an unlimited supply of water (but
no measuring cups). How would you come up with exactly four quarts of water? Note that the jugs
are oddly shaped, such that filling up exactly "half" of the jug would be impossible.

10)
Blue-Eyed Island: A bunch of people are living on an island, when a visitor comes with a strange
order: all blue-eyed people must leave the island as soon as possible. There will be a flight out at
8:00 pm every evening. Each person can see everyone else's eye color, but they do not know their
own (nor is anyone allowed to tell them). Additionally, they do not know how many people have
blue eyes, although they do know that at least one person does. How many days will it take the
blue-eyed people to leave?

11)
The Apocalypse: In the new post-apocalyptic world, the world queen is desperately concerned
about the birth rate. Therefore, she decrees that all families should ensure that they have one girl or
else they face massive fines. If all families abide by this policy-that is, they have continue to have
children until they have one girl, at which point they immediately stop-what will the gender ratio
of the new generation be? (Assume that the odds of someone having a boy or a girl on any given
pregnancy is equal.) Solve this out logically and then write a computer simulation of it.

12)
The Egg Drop Problem: There is a building of 100 floors. If an egg drops from the Nth floor or
above, it will break. If it's dropped from any floor below, it will not break. You're given two eggs. Find
N, while minimizing the number of drops for the worst case.

13) 
100 Lockers: There are 100 closed lockers in a hallway. A man begins by opening all 100 lockers.
Next, he closes every second locker. Then, on his third pass, he toggles every third locker (closes it if
it is open or opens it if it is closed). This process continues for 100 passes, such that on each pass i,
the man toggles every ith locker. After his 100th pass in the hallway, in which he toggles only locker
#100, how many lockers are open?

14)
Poison: You have 1000 bottles of soda, and exactly one is poisoned. You have 10 test strips which
can be used to detect poison. A single drop of poison will turn the test strip positive permanently.
You can put any number of drops on a test strip at once and you can reuse a test strip as many times
as you'd like (as long as the results are negative). However, you can only run tests once per day and
it takes seven days to return a result. How would you figure out the poisoned bottle in as few days
as possible?
FOLLOW UP
Write code to simulate your approach.

15. 
Bisect Squares: Given two squares on a two-dimensional plane, find a line that would cut these two
squares in half. Assume that the top and the bottom sides of the square run parallel to the x-axis.

16. 
Operations: Write methods to implement the multiply, subtract, and divide operations for integers.
The results of all of these are integers. Use only the add operator.

17. 
Implement a method rand7() given rand5( ). That is, given a method that
generates a random number between O and 4 (inclusive), write a method that generates a random
number between O and 6 (inclusive).

18. 
Write a function that adds two numbers. You should not use+ or any arithmetic
operators.

19. 
Design an algorithm to find the kth number such that the only prime factors are 3, 5,
and 7. Note that 3, 5, and 7 do not have to be factors, but it should not have any other prime factors.
For example, the first several multiples would be (in order) 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 15, 21.

Q.20. 
Continuous Median: Numbers are randomly generated and passed to a method. Write a program
to find and maintain the median value as new values are generated.

